I'm still at the beach.
I'm an attempt to bargain with us to trade off shortening or ending the hearings by
making some arrangements to do something for shine.
Mr. Carr, as an investigator and a former of the Iron Man, do you not regard such charges as that against
the one as very few?
I certainly do.
You think that these charges are not correctness.
I think they ought to be looked into.
I told you there was serious when you first asked.
And if they are true, if they are true, they should be doubly, shouldn't they?
I guess not.
That's my fault about it.
But within some reference to this whole matter, as hopeless, waste of time,
not for you to know.
But for you to agree with me, that if these charges are true, they indicate that immediate
and prompt actions should be taken to correct the situation.
It's not for me to say that, but I believe with you yet.
Thank you.
Mr. Carr, when Senator Mangles carrying on a very extensive court examination of Mr. Adams,
it runs in my mind that it was all summed up by Mr. Adams in saying that,
while there was no affirmative act on your part who indicated in honor,
that you failed to speak up, you failed to protest, you failed to remonstrate, you sat silent.
You feel that you had a duty under those circumstances to speak up and interject yourself in.
Any kind of conversation that may have existed at that time?
Well, in the first place, sir, I wouldn't have had any duty to speak up unless I thought there was something improper.
In the second place, there was nothing improper that I observed.
In the third place, I might say that it's not my duty to break into the conversation of the chairman of this committee
and the secretary of the Army until either side what they should do.
I want to emphasize that I didn't see anything improper on the side of Mr. Cohn, son of a McCarthy and myself,
in anything that we'd done.
Now, recurring from over to that elevated train ride, when does that train leave Newark State?
It's my recollection that it was sometime in the late afternoon, I would say probably 4'30 or 5'o'clock,
we arrived down here around 8'o'clock, it's the day before Thanksgiving.
So there's roughly about four hours, three and three quarter hours of travel time?
A pocket, yes.
Did you sit in the same seat together?
We traveled in a luxurious style, so we were in a club car, he had the chair next to mine and we looked at it.
Did you remain in the club car all the while or did you come into the washroom?
No, we went into dinner and following dinner we stopped in what I think is probably the real club car, a smoking car.
We smoked, I smoked the cigar, I don't remember what I was smoked to not.
It was during that period that we talked about the Pentagon press.
Did you in Conver the dinner hour with the conversation about the many business and incidental measures?
No sir, I don't say I'll get on more place on the dinner.
During the dinner hour, I very vividly recall that we discussed our own background.
I recall Miss Adams explained his, I explained mine.
We discussed our families and I recall his telling me about his baby that's made noise within the night.
You sort of presented yourself to each other in the best possible light I think.
Well, we had known each other for some time now, saying each other practically every day, at least talking to each other on the phone.
But this was an opportunity to sit down and relax in an unofficial way.
Talk, yes sir.
That's a good train on which to take a snooze, isn't it?
Yes sir.
Did you take your snooze and the thing you said?
No, I didn't. I did read the paper though.
Well, I've been wondering how much of that four hour period was devoted to these various affairs including one G David Schum.
But enough of the train ride just caught.
Mr. Carr, if a member of the Regress of the Committee team, if you'll procure something from the files, you would know about it wouldn't you?
Yes sir, what?
You've been with the committee roughly about 11 months haven't you?
That's correct, yes.
And taking out the time of this investigation we might say that was the 9.5 months test.
Now then, in that 9.5 months period, how many members of the subcommittee actually came to the committee room to talk to you or someone else in authority?
And procure something from the committee file?
I can't recall any member of the subcommittee coming to my office or the subcommittee offices to procure anything from the file.
I believe that on one maybe two occasions for some regional rather an executive meeting of the committee was held in my office.
Some members of the subcommittee came to the office to ask for that.
Would you interpret that as either?
And I think very importantly because it includes me you see that I have to take my full share of the responsibilities.
Has either been too busy or being a little indifferent or having complete confidence in what the committee's have been doing?
I would say that it would be a combination of being too busy to personally come down there.
I know that on many occasions, like I can say many occasions, on some occasions, members of the subcommittee have called me on me or other staff members on the phone and requested things.
They've been sent to them. I know during the course of Senator Potter's investigation concerning the war of custody, but he was in contact with myself and Donald Donald on many occasions.
May I say in behalf of Senator Potter, he did a magnificent job on that.
Are you in the custody picture with you at least?
I think so, Senator.
Now then, what's your understanding of the reserve commission as distinguished from the Honourary Commission?
My understanding is that our reserve is a reserve. He doesn't go into the army until they call him. He's held in reserve.
So you believe that you were right in assuming that Mr. Shine, if he got a reserve commission, mine could not be called at some reasonably early days.
I believe that's a big question. Yes. Or I didn't get much thought behind it.
Now he was an uncompensated consultant of the committee. Is that correct? Yes.
He was there for no charge upon the committee funds that have been approved by both of the tenants.
I didn't see who's there for no, what's that?
I say, all his services were there for no charge upon the committee funds that have been approved on the tenants.
I know sir. Perhaps the incidental phone call or something like that, but there was no charge in the committee.
So wait for any reason, including induction in the United States Army, his services must be dispensed with.
It would be possible for a car to secure some other investigator to take his foot.
Yes sir, an investigator was necessary because he could be done yet.
Yes sir.
Senator Jackson. Mr. Carr, the last hour we were on the memorandum on page 5 December 9th.
I was referring to the language that you used in the next the last paragraph, the preference to blackmail.
Now do I understand that you did not intend to use the word blackmail in the usual sense of that word?
I intended to use the word blackmail, yes sir.
I don't qualify it very much. I just tell you that sometimes I use words loosely.
To me, I was thinking at this point of blackmail in one sense of its meaning.
I think that the dictionary will show that one meaning of blackmail is to extort. That's what I was thinking.
Well, I'm too extorted to crime.
I can say that I can extort a crime, yes sir.
So it was blackmail in a lawyer's sense of the term?
I wasn't using it in a lawyer's sense. I was using it in a free sense. In a sense of which it was written, this was memorandum was written.
Were you using it in an FBI sense?
I'm actually framing it.
I don't know that I was. However, I will tell you that I thought it was an extremely serious business.
So that on December 9th the situation was serious.
It was to me, yes.
As far as you were, because well, it's a German memorandum, but you were stating or giving your own state of mind on that date.
Do you recall the testimony in the hearings that there was a feeling that this controversy of the Army didn't get serious until January 21st?
That's right, I recall.
You don't agree with that, according to this memorandum, do you?
Yes, I agree with that. In the sense in which it was used here, I agree with that.
I believe it's not really serious on the 21st or 22nd of January.
I believe, however, that it was serious at this time, and I fly across the memorandum.
But this was all released to the press in March after the chronological list of charges had been released by the Army, right?
That's correct.
So that the public was advised that there was blackmail going on as of December 9th at least, and that is still your opinion.
There was blackmail attempted as of December 9th.
In the sense of extort, yes, I believe that.
So as far as you're concerned, the situation was serious prior to January 21st?
Yes, sir.
And the relations with the Army are reversed.
The situation, sir?
Yes, but I say that's with reference to the Army.
Now, if you'll refer to page 4, let's memorandum 7.
Now, about the third paragraph.
Excuse me, sir.
Maybe it's not the same. I guess the same, but you have the same memorandum.
memorandum.
What?
Burntagga?
Well, there's paragraph. As you know.
As you know, I have on many occasions been pretty cursed with Dave about the prompt submission of memorandum.
However, in this current situation, view the change of plans I cannot criticize them.
Well, now, what memo did he submit to you?
What memorandum did he submit to you?
As I said, I don't recall any specific one that he submitted to me.
That's one of the things I was curt with him about that.
So far, as you know, he's never submitted any memorandum to you.
Uh, as far as I know, he's never submitted any memorandum to me.
See, as I read your sentence, I'm just looking at it literally.
I don't know what you had in mind.
But as you know, I'm quoting you now.
As you know, I have on many occasions been cursed with Dave about the prompt submission of memorandum.
Now, that statement would imply that he'd get it in, but he wasn't very prompt.
No, it might imply that.
Well, there's been a reasonable implication.
After reasonable implication, but I believe that I wrote this, having in mind that I wish he would submit more memorandum or memorandum, and I wish he would submit them properly.
But all the time that you were staff director starting in July through this period of four dicks,
you never received any memorandum from him or a memorandum of any kind relating to his work.
To your knowledge.
I don't, I don't recall any of all I may have.
Now, Mr. Car, as I recall, and I'm sure you heard the testimony, Mr. Adams testified that you have suggested to him
that he should get in touch with Mr. Solkowski.
Is that true?
I heard the testimony, the statement is not true.
So I'm afraid he was his statement.
So he said that I suggested to him that he get in touch with George Sikowski.
It is an error, yes sir.
You never stated that.
I don't recall ever stating that.
I can, I would tell you more.
Well I'm trying to figure out why you would be suggesting to Mr. Adams that he should get in touch with Mr. Solkowski.
I didn't suggest to him.
You never did.
No sir.
Well, is it partly correct or how does Mr. Solkowski come into this conversation?
The statement is not correct in any way.
There is a situation which I have in mind that I believe he hadn't mind at the time.
The situation was, this was around the first part of February.
I recall that Mr. Adams recalled for me in a conversation with him.
How helpful he and the secretary had believed Mr. Sikowski had been at the occasion of a lunch and meeting on November 17th when Mr. Sikowski had discussed with them the preparation of a press relief which I understand they didn't use.
How does joint press conference, this is in relation to November 17th at the Merchants Club, when Secretary Stevenson and Senator McCarty gave a joint press conference.
I just couldn't understand why someone outside the government would be in this.
Is he in as sort of a friend of the court and trying to arbitrate?
No sir.
No sir. It didn't happen that way.
As I stated, Mr. Adams recalled to me that Mr. Sikowski had been a helpful tool to the secretary and friendly to the secretary and to Mr. Adams at that time.
That was around the first part of the February as I recall.
I think he told me that I told him at that time, rather, that he suggested that maybe Mr. Sikowski could be helpful to him in connection with the, if I recall correctly, this letter that Secretary Stevenson publicly sent to Senator McCarty.
So is your impression that Mr. Sikowski was quite friendly to the secretary and he was trying to help the secretary?
Did he come in? Is that correct?
No, it's, I want to make this clear. Mr. Adams was of the opinion and I think correctly so, was of the opinion that at the time of November 17th Mr. Sikowski had been friendly to the secretary.
I don't know whether that was his first meeting or not, but he thought that Mr. Sikowski had been friendly to the secretary.
Therefore he thought Mr. Sikowski might possibly have the assistance to him, might I say?
He's ironing out the differences between the Army and Senator McCarty and the staff.
Yes, yes.
Or the Port Mom of Hearing basically.
Well, over this November 13th, the press conference with Mr. Stevenson held.
Yes, but it grew out of the Port Mom of Secretary.
Now let me ask you whether the secretary, Mr. Steven or Mr. Adams, one of the investigation of Port Mom of Stop or the executive session of the hearing stop.
I think the one at Port Mom stopped.
Well, what did they seem to be discussing the most?
Were they talking about the executive sessions and the press releases after the executive sessions or were they insisting on stopping of the entire investigation as such?
I think it's time to get started.
Well, I...
I recall no time when Mr. Adams or Mr. Steven spoke to me about the press releases after the hearing.
I recall that Mr. Adams attended many of the press conferences following the hearing.
I know that Secretary Steven's attended at least a few.
And no time that they say to me and I don't believe Mr. McCarty or Mr. Cohn, anything about the press releases.
I think that they wanted the executive sessions of the subcommittee on Port Mom of Just Continued.
I think they wanted the investigation to discontinue.
They said so.
I think it's just how they had to...
Mr. Chairman referenced as a maid to the three-and-aubt climate philosophy hearings that was my privilege to serve as chairman.
I would like to state that the work of the staff in preparation for the hearings was excellent.
I think Mr. Cohn should have more of the credit to them.
And your comfort was greatly appreciated.
I might also add that the Army and the Navy Air Force and the Department of State will fall on to more information for all of the most well.
Mr. Carr and referring to your testimony this morning.
I think you mentioned that they claimed just when...
November the 17th when you and Senator McCarty or Mr. Cohn, Mr. Steven's and others went to Port 6.
And you were met at the airport by...
...from the personnel at the camp there in private Chant.
I made you state that you're testimony this morning.
And Mr. Steven said, in essence, well, this is a good time to have my picture taken with you today.
Is that correct? If not, I wish you would tell me.
You're like a legend of what Mr. Steven said today.
That's it in a suggestion.
Who? Who did you say that to?
It was my impression that he said it to Mr. Cohn as we were getting off the plane.
You heard the testimony of Mr. Secretary Steven's and I think Mr. Adam and others.
Who stated that testimony which is in contradiction to yours that no mention was made about having a picture taken with Mr. Cohn.
Is that correct? You'll further get...
I'm going to tell you something.
Your policy is in your statement which is under always that Mr. Steven did make a statement stating that he would like to...
...just a good time to have his picture taken with you.
Yes, sir. And I think the proof is that a picture won't take.
I don't know for the quick.
Your judgment.
Before the next senator has an opportunity to question Mr. Carlett's return.
Mr. Carlett, where are the committee files kept?
Most of the committee files are kept in room 160.
And where are the others kept?
The file room is room 160.
On occasion files will be in my office if we're working.
Now would be the only other place beside the committee room.
Yes, sir.
Would that be temporary or permanent?
In my office?
Yes.
That would be temporary, yes.
And the fact that you previously testified under certain circumstances,
all committee staff and critical help would be able to get out the files, wouldn't they?
Well, I testified that physically the committee staff would be able to get out the files.
I think that made it clear that critical employees are not supposed to go down and spend the time...
Would you made it very clear that if...
...so you were secretary, somebody else in the secretary went down.
The file clerk wasn't there.
He'll let the agency not to be there. She'd go ahead and get the file.
She could do that, yes.
So the files are in effect available to every member of the committee under certain circumstances?
That's correct.
Now, Mr. Carr, do you know what clearance each of your staff members have that is each investigator,
each clinical helps to knock her for a fire clerk and so forth?
Yes, sir.
What are those clearances? Let me put it through this way.
Have they all got clearances from the Department of Defense and if so on what basis?
They have clearances varying degrees of clearance.
One of them has top secret clearance on an 8-0 basis, which has never been retracted.
Generally, they all have clearance up to and including secrecy.
Now, let's see.
You say one staff member has a top secret clearance?
I recall that one staff member was given a top secret clearance.
I don't know that there was ever rescinded.
And all the others from the Department of Defense have a secret clearance?
Clearances through secret.
The other clearance is off through secret, yes.
And it really wouldn't make any difference where the one-hat top secret and all the rest had secret
or one-hat secret and all the rest had top secret if they all had access to the files, isn't that right?
I would say that it wouldn't make a great deal with different sort of secret or top secret.
Now, have you any clearance from the Atomic Energy Commission and if so on what basis?
I don't know of any clearance from the Atomic Energy Commission.
But you check into that and make it a matter of the record.
Now, as you know, our budget, most of our budget, depending upon our estimate of enemy strength, and that is of course, has a lot to do with the Central Intelligence Agency estimates.
Are we any clearance staff members in this committee, of this committee, from the Central Intelligence Agency?
Has it ever been asked for and if so on what basis?
I don't know of my own knowledge whether any clearance has ever been asked of Central Intelligence Agency.
I think it would probably be useless to ask an agency for clearance to investigate it.
I did say it by investigating it.
Well, all to use it. It's talking this. I don't have to.
In other words, as long as you brought the word up, it would be unfortunate if we had a subversive on our staff and he hadn't had clearance.
And then the examiner and agency, and in that agency, he got information which made it possible for him to portray in a country.
It would be unfortunate and it would be most unusual. We don't have any subversive on this.
Well, class kids was unusual, wasn't they?
So it was made. Certainly was.
Now, let me ask another question. Have the staff members got clearance from the FBI and if so, and another clerical help and if so on what basis?
Drop.
Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Chairman, is the clerk here?
No, I think it's point of personal privilege for my staff. Some of your colleagues talking about the possibility of subversive on our staff.
The information is that he knows of some subversive on the staff he does not.
If he knows of any subversive, then he should take this stand until it's above him. He owes the duty otherwise. He owes the duty to apologize.
To the unmanned wasn't working day and night. To give her to come this.
Well, Mr. McClown, his friend and Mr. McClown, Mr. Simonton. His friends.
Get your name straight.
Mr. Chairman.
The staff member.
The point of personal privilege was to determine.
Thank you.
Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Solomonton, he was happy to see you.
Further?
Senator Solomonton knows of no subversive on the staff.
Then he should say so.
If he has any evidence, then he subversive on my staff.
Then he should be willing to take the oaths here until it's above him.
I don't like these innuendos against these young men who have been working so hard and very little salaries.
To dig out communists, without the help of the men like Senator Solomonton.
Mr. Chairman, I think that's right at first on the front of the security care window.
He's just not here at the time of his mention.
I remember him as well.
I thank you for your time.
I thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Now let's see where we were, Mr. Carr.
I trust that does not come out of my time.
It does not.
Thank you.
Getting back to the question of clearance from the federal Bureau of Investigations.
You know a lot about those clearances.
No, I don't.
Don't you?
No.
When you were at the FBI, you didn't know about clearance.
Yes, I know about clearance.
But you said I know a lot about them, so I really don't.
You know I don't much about them.
I want to make it clear here that I was not in any section of the FBI, which handled the aids on matter.
I know that I know that.
I'm as far as these people on this staff are under your administrative control.
Yes, correct.
Yes, they were.
I have not had that.
I was just having a procedure by May, and I'm trying to frame this question if you'd like to.
I won't be talking to them right now.
I don't think Mr. Carr finished an answer to a previous question.
I'm sure it's on the assignment.
All right, so they go back and pick it up.
Well, what I was leading up to was that I don't know the FBI giving any clearance on any individual.
As I think Senator McCarthy has touched the slide, they have advised us from time to time that they have no directory information concerning members of the staff.
If they have it fine, you've come time to time, if they have no directory information,
ensuring any members of the staff.
That's correct.
Thank you for that.
Thank you, members.
I have a question.
When I was in the executive branch of the government, the FBI would investigate people provided that you had not hired them.
That is before they came with you.
Is that now stopped also?
Do you have to know?
I don't know, that's correct.
Does this include the clerical members too?
Have the clerical members as synonymous with clerks?
Have the clerks as a department of defense, for example?
Yes, sir.
I'll be right.
That's correct.
One more.
The other is Chair and Fire of the Members and Committee of the Heavy, the roll of the roll of those is 25 minutes to five.
Mr. Chairman, I have four more questions.
I'll be through.
Mr. Chairman, I'm going to move forward.
Chair Rick, now is the new amendment to the one of the personal privilege.
I will recognize it before we leave.
I'll then recognize it as a question.
The other is the one of the personal privilege.
Chair Rick, and I send his time to the one more question.
I will recognize you for the 20th personal privilege.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Now I emphasize I have no information.
I am simply asking for information.
Now, Mr. Kahn, in the present rule for access to files of this committee,
temple form retirementers, who have not really reformed or hastened versus
or any security risk on this committee staff that might get on it.
The science of the trade is country.
By revealing the contents of a secret FBI document,
which he had found in the file, based to a possible enemy,
it would be a relatively simple matter,
would have not for him to do that based on the way these files are handled.
Also, I don't, I don't, I don't, uh, deal with you.
I don't know of any FBI secret documents or they contain enough files.
There is no, there are no for ported secret documents to the FBI.
Confidence of documents in the file?
No sir, I don't know any FBI documents and awful.
What would you say the two-and-a-quarter page document was?
That was from the center of this office, sir.
That was not in the file, that's correct.
But if it weren't in the file, then it would be possible for somebody to get it under these rules.
Will it?
We answered the question, and we're going to go to the right.
The transfer question, and I already answered with the personal privilege.
I was just having to write the answer in my half-one question.
I do want to raise that point before we leave the staff to help.
If he can, we can see it again.
But I will raise it as brief as I can when I say that some of the assignments have been here,
by anyone that trying to smear their staff of young men,
who have been working to dig out communists,
and talking about what might happen if there were a subversive on the staff,
I would like to ask him now,
even though he's not under rule.
Whether he has any information at all,
or any kind, to justify this attempted smear against these 14 young men,
who have done such an excellent job on covering communists.
If he has no information, then he should be honest enough to tell us,
if he has information, he should take a stand and take the oath,
as these young men are taking it.
Now, we ask you, Senator, do you have any information
to indicate that there is anyone in my staff,
who is subversive, as you have indicated in your questioning?
Any time I can answer the question,
and as I have to recess the law,
I will answer that question this way, Senator Cardi.
In all the years that I have been in this government,
they saw the question.